Data Science and Analytics Section
a) Rationale
The section is established to provide a wide range of advanced data science and analytics expertise,
guidance, and support to researchers, research teams, and managers engaged in research studies within the
institute.
b)Functions
The functions of the section are to:
Assist in formulation, implementation and review of policies, strategies and guidelines on data
analytics;
Collect, analyze and interpret biological and health science data across multiple research entities in
the institute.
Support in the design, development, and reporting of research studies
Undertake data safeguarding and management of databases, softwares and workflows
Provide monitoring and evaluation services to all research projects undertaken within the
institution.
Collect, analyze and interpret biological and health science data across multiple research entities
in the institute.
Establish the ecological, epidemiological and natural history of a disease.
Design, monitor and assess disease control programmes.
Evaluate the effects of a disease, and analysis of the costs and economic benefits of alternative
control programmes.
Identify valuable data sources and automate collection processes.
Perform research and analysis on all algorithms and coordinate with various teams and provide
support to various research programs
Assist scientists by providing effective analysis and feedback on all bioinformatics
Provide training to community and analyze various genome sequencing projects for various
research projects
Manage all genomic and proteomic data and maintain knowledge on all scientific literature and
prepare appropriate reports
Design various new computational tools for bioinformatics and assemble and prepare data
structures and determine an effective data analysis framework.(xvi) Build predictive models and machine-learning algorithms.
Undertake model combinations through ensemble modeling.
Analyze large amounts of information to discover disease trends and patterns
Conduct capacity building and mentorships in biostatistics and modeling.
Disseminate scientific findings through publications, conferences, seminars and workshops